docs: API docs for new Server endpoints (#5639)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/developer-guide/ksqldb-rest-api/streaming-endpoint.md

---
layout: page
title: HTTP Streaming API
tagline: streaming endpoints
description: The HTTP Streaming API lets you execute pull or push queries and stream inserts to the
server
keywords: ksqlDB, query, insert, select
---

> Please note: These endpoints are used by the ksqlDB Java client. If you are using Java you might want

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note
    These endpoints are used by the ksqlDB Java client. If you're using Java, consider

```

> to consider using the Java client rather than using this API directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the Java client rather than using this API directly.

```

These endpoints are only available when using HTTP 2.

### Executing pull or push queries

> The request method will be a POST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request method is a POST.

```

> Requests will be made to the endpoint "/query-stream".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requests are made to the endpoint `/query-stream`.

```

The body of the request is a JSON object UTF-8 encoded as text, containing the arguments for the

> operation (newlines have been added here for the sake of clarity but the real JSON must not contain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operation. Newlines have been added here for the sake of clarity, but actual JSON must not contain

```

>  unescaped newlines)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 unescaped newlines.

```

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Reviewer: (three backticks)

{
"sql": "select * from foo", <----- the SQL of the query to execute
"properties": {             <----- Optional properties for the query
    "prop1": "val1",
    "prop2": "val2"
   }
}

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Reviewer: (three backticks)

> The endpoint produces responses with two possible content types `application/json` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The endpoint produces responses with two possible content types: `application/json` and

```

> `application/vnd.ksqlapi.delimited.v1`. To choose one or the other you should set the `Accept`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`application/vnd.ksqlapi.delimited.v1`. To specify the content type, set the `Accept`

```

header in the request. The default is `application/vnd.ksqlapi.delimited.v1`.

> In the case of a successful query, if the content type is `application/vnd.ksqlapi.delimited.v1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of a successful query, if the content type is `application/vnd.ksqlapi.delimited.v1`,

```

> then the results are returned as a header JSON object followed by zero or more JSON arrays

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the results are returned as a header JSON object followed by zero or more JSON arrays

```

> delimited by newlines. Newline delimited formats are easy to parse by clients, and don't require

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that are delimited by newlines. Newline-delimited formats are easy to parse by clients and don't require

```

a streaming JSON parser on the client in the case that intermediate results need to be output.

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

{

> "queryId", "xyz123",                          <---- unique ID of the query, used when terminating the query

Reviewer 2: Clarify that this is empty in the case of pull queries (and non-empty in the case of push queries).

"columnNames":["col", "col2", "col3"],        <---- the names of the columns
"columnTypes":["BIGINT", "STRING", "BOOLEAN"] <---- The types of the columns
}

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Reviewer: (three backticks)

> Followed by zero or more JSON arrays:

Reviewer 2: Can we also add a note about the error response format? Specifically, the rows are JSON arrays unless an error is encountered while streaming, in which case a JSON object of a particular format is returned. I know last time we said this doesn't appear to actually happen even though the infrastructure is set up for it, but it'd still be useful to call out since clients should handle this case.

Author: I don't think this can happen so doesn't make sense to me to add it to the docs.

Reviewer 2: Will we want to support errors in this way in the future? If not we should remove the functionality from the server to clean up the code. If so we should have a plan for how to update clients to support these errors if the error mechanism is added in the future. (The Java client already supports them, but authors of any new clients won't if the mechanism isn't documented.) It seems easier to have clients support the mechanism up front rather than having to go through and add support in the clients when we want to start using the mechanism.

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json

```

[123, "blah", true]
[432, "foo", true]
[765, "whatever", false]

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Reviewer: (three backticks)

> If you prefer to receive the entire response as valid JSON then you can request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to receive the entire response as valid JSON, request the

```

> content type `application/json`. In which case you will receive the results, as a single JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`application/json` content type. In this case, you receive the results as a single JSON

```

> array, for example: (newlines have been added for clarity, the response body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
array, as shown in the following example. Newlines have been added for clarity, and the response body

```

> won't contain newlines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
won't contain newlines.

```

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json

```

[
{

> "queryId", "xyz123",                          <---- unique ID of the query, used when terminating the query

Reviewer 2: As above: clarify that this is empty in the case of pull queries (and non-empty in the case of push queries).

"columnNames":["col", "col2", "col3"],        <---- the names of the columns
"columnTypes":["BIGINT", "STRING", "BOOLEAN"] <---- The types of the columns
},
[123, "blah", true]
[432, "foo", true]

> [765, "whatever", false]

Reviewer 2: Are there supposed to be commas after each of these lines? This doesn't look like valid JSON as written.

]

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Reviewer: (three backticks)

### Terminating queries

> Push queries can be explicitly terminated by the client by making a request to this endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can terminate push queries explicitly in the client by making a request to this endpoint.

```

> The request method will be a POST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request method is POST.

```

> Requests will be made to the endpoint "/close-query"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send requests to the `/close-query` endpoint.

```

The body of the request is a JSON object UTF-8 encoded as text, containing the id of the 

> query to close. (newlines have been added here for the sake of clarity but the real JSON must not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
query to close. Newlines are added here for the sake of clarity, but the actual JSON must not

```

> contain newlines)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contain newlines.

```

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json

```

{

> "queryId": "xyz123", <----- the ID of the query to terminate

Reviewer 2: Remove this comma so this is valid JSON.

}

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Reviewer: (three backticks)

> ### Streaming inserts

Reviewer 2: Perhaps replace with "Inserting rows into an existing stream" to clarify the use case?

Regardless of whether we change the subheading, we should clarify that this endpoint only allows insertion of rows into ksqlDB streams and not tables. (I see the comment in the example specifies "KSQL stream" but I think this is worth calling out explicitly in the text as well.)

> The request method will be a POST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request method is POST.

```

> Requests will be made to the endpoint "/insert-stream".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send requests to the `/insert-stream` endpoint.

```

> Requests will be made to the endpoint "/insert-stream".

Reviewer 2: The endpoint is `/inserts-stream`, not `/insert-stream`.

The body of the request is a JSON object UTF-8 encoded as text, containing the arguments for the

> operation (newlines have been added for clarity, the real JSON must not contain newlines):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operation. Newlines are added for clarity, but the actual JSON must not contain newlines.

```

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json

```

{

> "target": "my-stream" <----- The name of the KSQL stream to insert into

Reviewer 2: Clarify that this is case-insensitive (uppercased by default). Users can surround the name in either backticks or double quotes to make it case-sensitive.

Reviewer 2: Also, `ksqlDB`, not `KSQL`.

Author: Can you clarify what the semantics are here?

Case insensitive means that:

foo will match streams "foo", "FOO", "fOO".
and 
FOO will match streams "foo", "FOO", "fOO"

If we just uppercase what the client specifies then that seems different to case insensitive, i.e.
foo will match FOO, but not foo

Reviewer 2: You're correct; we just uppercase by default so it's not truly case-insensitive. I meant case-insensitivity in the sense that if users never use quotes/backticks (in all their requests and statements) then the behavior of ksqlDB is case-insensitive (because everything is always uppercased).

}

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Reviewer: (three backticks)

Followed by zero or more JSON objects representing the values to insert:

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json

```

{

> "col1" : "val1",

Reviewer 2: Clarify that these field names are case-insensitive (uppercased by default). Users can surround the names in either backticks or double quotes to make them case-sensitive.

"col2": 2.3,
"col3", true
}

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> Each JSON object will be separated by a new line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each JSON object is separated by a newline.

```

> To terminate the insert stream the client should end the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To terminate the insert stream, the client must end the request.

```

> Acks will be written to the response when each row has been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ack is written to the response when each row has been

```

> successfully committed to the underlying topic. Rows are committed in the order they are provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
committed successfully to the underlying topic. Rows are committed in the order they are provided.

```

Each ack in the response is a JSON object, separated by newlines:

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json

```

{"status":"ok","seq":0}
{"status":"ok","seq":2}
{"status":"ok","seq":1}
{"status":"ok","seq":3}

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> A successful ack will contain a field `status` with value `ok`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful ack contains a `status` field with value `ok`.

```

> All ack responses also contain a field `seq` with a 64 bit signed integer value. This number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All ack responses also contain a `seq` field with a 64-bit signed integer value. This number

```

corresponds to the sequence of the insert on the request. The first send has sequence `0`, the second
`1`, the third `2`, etc. It allows the client to correlate the ack to the corresponding send.

> In case of error, an error response (see below) will be sent. For an error response for a send, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of error, an error response (see below) is sent. For an error response for a send, the

```

> In case of error, an error response (see below) will be sent. For an error response for a send, the

Reviewer 2: Do we have a section on error responses? I agree it'd be useful to have.

Author: It's the on the main api page

Reviewer 2: I think my confusion is whether "see below" makes sense or not. These docs are on their own page, so there is no "below", right? Replacing the "see below" with a link to the error section from the main page would clear up my confusion.

> `seq` field will also be included. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`seq` field is included. 

```

> Please note that acks can be returned in a different sequence to which the inserts were submitted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note
    acks can be returned in a different sequence to which the inserts were submitted. 

```
